Women in the Submarine Service have suffered misogyny, bullying and other unacceptable behaviours, a Royal Navy investigation has found. This behaviour w
as seen "amongst all ranks" but was "not pervasive" across the service, the report said, after a two-year-long investigation. Whistleblower Sophie Brook, who was a lieutenant, made cla
ims about her treatment while serving with the Royal Navy, first prompting the review in 2022. Responding to the report's findings, she told the BBC this was a "critical moment, not just f
or me, but for every woman and man who has suffered in silence." Navy chief, the First Sea Lord Admiral Sir Ben Key, said he was "truly sorry" to Ms Brook and any personnel past and pre
sent who had faced unacceptable behaviour. The allegations investigated in the report were from a number of women not just Ms Brook and covered a period between 2014 and 2020. She had alle
ged that a culture of sexual assault, sexual harassment and misogyny was widespread within the Submarine Service. On Friday Ms Brook told the BBC she hoped the report was not just a "token
gesture". "The report highlights the systemic failures I, and many others, experienced first hand\u2014failures that left victims isolated, silenced, and often retaliated against for dar
ing to speak up." She said she had come forward to "shine a light on a culture that, for too long, has been permitted to thrive within some of the most elite branches of our armed forces.
" Ms Brook continued: "No-one should have to endure the harassment, abuse, and mental toll that I and countless others have faced. "The Royal Navy must take immediate action to ensure t
hat no-one else is subjected to the same systemic misogyny and discrimination that has long plagued the Submarine Service." However she added that "this fight is far from over" to ensure
in future submariners worked where there was "respect, dignity, and equality." Adm Sir Ben said he had met Ms Brook and "apologised to her personally and unreservedly" as he praised he
r courage. Parts of the published report are heavily redacted, meaning some details have been removed. Allegations made within the report about how service personnel were treated include:
There were also allegations that victims were discouraged from filing complaints of abuse, or they would face being branded "dangerous girls" or "troublemakers". Overall, the Navy said
it had conducted 28 separate investigations leading to the discharge of 21 individuals, with four being reduced in rank and six facing disciplinary or administrative action. Of the total di
scharged three were in relation to Ms Brook's complaints. The investigation has not led to any charges of sexual assault, but a number of individuals have been discharged from the Navy foll
owing the investigation. Some of the allegations were reported to the MoD\u2019s serious crime unit but the Navy said there was insufficient evidence to bring prosecutions. In a statement r
eleased on Friday, Sir Ben said the recommendations from the investigation had been accepted in full, including the establishment of a new head of culture, alongside changes to training in
the Submarine Service. The admiral said that a number of measures were being taken to address what he has called \u201cappalling behaviours\u201d against women \u2013 who make up just over
10% of the service. In the statement, Sir Ben continued: "Poor practices and behaviours in the past that may have been normalized in some quarters should never have been considered accepta
ble, and they have no place today, we must institute a culture that does not allow space for this behaviour to exist, and we must deal with perpetrators swiftly, without fear or favour, whi
ch I can confirm we have now done.\u201d He added that the service "must be better" and "do better than we have". The investigation followed complaints of bullying and sexual harassment
against women. One woman, who spent several months at sea on board Royal Navy warships, told the BBC about an incident in 2019 when an officer stuck his hand up her skirt while they were d
rinking in the Officer's Mess. When she protested and put a stop to things by announcing she was returning to her cabin, the officer followed her to her room and "hammered on my door, cond
om in hand", she said. Health and Safety Executive publish report into accident during training exercise at Catterick Garrison. The musician says he didn't choose to make an album about th
e site, it "chose me". The government defends bailing out Coherent, which considered closure after losing a deal with Apple. The pair were among more than 59,000 British casualties durin
g the Battle of Loos in 1915. The remains of two unknown Scottish soldiers thought to have died in WW1 have been laid to rest in France.
